# 7. Planning, budgeting & forecasting

In the previous section, we looked at the customization options available for the charts and visualizations. In this section, we'll cover the following:

1. **What-if analysis & simulations** - With Inforiver, you can create what-if scenarios and quick forecasts on the fly using a graphical slider to simulate and roll up or spread-down changes in hierarchies. To learn more, refer to [what-if analysis & simulations](../4.-adding-business-logic-and-formulae/what-if-analysis-and-simulations.md).
2. **Scenarios** - Inforiver Enterprise offers the ability to create new scenarios in edit and read modes based on an existing series for ad-hoc analysis. To learn more, refer to [scenarios](scenarios-writeback-matrix-only.md).
3. **Budgeting & allocations** - Inforiver provides a great way to create quick sales forecasts, business plans, or financial budgets. While using hierarchies, you can spread data entered on a parent cell to its descendants (rows & columns), based on weights from other measures. To learn more, refer to [budgeting & allocations](../4.-adding-business-logic-and-formulae/budgeting-and-allocations.md).
4. **Forecasting -** Inforiver allows you to perform rolling forecasts and re-forecasts with methods such as period range, average of period range, and so on. You can use the integrated time intelligence and time extension features to generate half-yearly or fiscal period forecasts. Once actuals are obtained, you can autoclose the forecast, update, distribute deficits, and extend projections. For further information, see [Forecasting](forecasting.md).
5. **Set version** - 'Set version' can be used to compare two or more measures in the report and calculate absolute and percentage variances automatically. Inforiver also provides a one-click variance analysis of different business scenarios. To learn more, refer to the [set version](../4.-adding-business-logic-and-formulae/set-version.md).
